# DataMining

<b>Assignment 1: Linear Regression in Python

Assignment 2: Decision Trees and Splitting Criteria

Assignment 3: KNN, Naive Bayes, and Document Classification

Assignment 4: Clustering Spatial Data

Assignment 5: Association Rules </b>

---------

All the labs below are in form of a complete project report. It includes all the code, graphs and writeup showing what, why and how we did, what we did. It includes business understanding, data preprocessing, data quality analysis, analysis of statistical properties of various attribute, data modelling, results 

<b>Lab One: Visualization and Data Preprocessing</b><br>
Dataset Used - ‘Online News Popularity Data Set’ from the UCI Machine Learning Repository (https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Online+News+Popularity). In this lab, we performed data exploration, visualization with interpretation and variable reduction. This dataset summarizes a heterogeneous set of features about articles published by mashable in a period of two years. The target attribute is the number of times the mashable article was shared on social media based on an optimal number of explanatory variables.

<b>Lab Two: Logistic Regression and SVMs</b><br>
Dataset used - Adult dataset or Census Income dataset from UCI machine learning repository (https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/adult). The purpose of collection of this data is to predict whether individual income exceeds \$50000/yr based on census data. The approach used begins with missing data analysis and exploratory data analysis. Then Logestic regression with optimization was performed to crack the classification problem. Then we used Gradient Descent classification algorithms like Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGDClassifer) and MiniBatch Gradient Descent classifer to check its performance and accurancy as compared with Logestic regression. Then we used Support Vector Machine Classification (SVC) with Hyperparameter optimization using Pipeline and GridSearchCV. 

<b>Lab Three: Classification</b><br>
For the ‘Online News Popularity Data Set’, perform the classification model training, optimization and evaluation. ML model used were Linear regression, Decision tree, naive bayes and RandomForest with PCA and KNN

<b>Lab Four: Association Rule Mining, Clustering, or Collaborative Filtering</b><br>
Dataset used: obtained from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/jiashenliu/515k-hotel-reviews-data-in-europe). The data was generated by scrapping from http://www.booking.com/. Based on the reviews, recommendation model was created. 

